<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_psf_d1t_lwb">
    <title>Landing Procedure</title>
    <body>
        <p>A landing process refers to the steps and procedures that are followed by an aircraft and
            its crew to safely bring the aircraft down from flight to the runway. It is a crucial
            part of the flight and involves multiple stages, including descent, approach, flare, and
            touch down.</p>
        <section id="section_u2c_q1t_lwb">
            <title>Regular Landing Procedure</title>
            <p>The normal landing procedure for a Boeing 747 typically involves several stages:</p>
            <ol id="ol_iy4_r1t_lwb">
                <li>Descent: The pilot will initiate the descent to the landing runway by reducing
                    altitude and airspeed. This may be done by reducing engine thrust and deploying
                    the landing gear.</li>
                <li>Approach: During the approach, the pilot will line up the aircraft with the
                    runway and adjust the airspeed and altitude to match the recommended approach
                    profile. The pilot will also configure the aircraft by extending the flaps and
                    slats, which increase the lift and drag of the wings to allow for a slower
                    approach speed.</li>
                <li>Flare: As the aircraft nears the runway, the pilot will "flare" the aircraft by
                    pulling back on the control column to reduce the rate of descent and touch down
                    more gently.</li>
                <li>Touchdown: The wheels of the aircraft will touch down on the runway, and the
                    pilot will use the brakes to bring the aircraft to a complete stop on the
                    runway.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section id="section_ukc_v1t_lwb">
            <title>Post Landing Procedure</title>
            <p>Once the aircraft has landed, the pilot will typically perform several post-landing
                procedures, including:</p>
            <ol id="ol_e2p_w1t_lwb">
                <li>Taxiing: The pilot will taxi the aircraft to the designated parking area on the
                    airport's ramp using the aircraft's nose wheel steering and brakes.</li>
                <li>Shutdown: The pilot will shut down the engines and perform other checks such as
                    setting the parking brakes and shutting off electrical systems.</li>
                <li>Secure the aircraft: The pilot will ensure that all doors are secure, the flight
                    deck is secured, and all passengers have safely disembarked the aircraft.</li>
                <li>File a flight plan: The pilot will file a flight plan that summarizes the
                    flight's details, including the route, flight time, and fuel consumption.</li>
                <li>Debriefing: The pilot may have a debriefing with the rest of the flight crew to
                    discuss any issues or incidents that occurred during the flight.</li>
                <li>Maintenance check: The aircraft may require maintenance checks or inspections
                    before it is cleared for its next flight.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section id="section_ggw_h1t_lwb">
            <title>Engine Failure Procedure</title>
            <p>In the event of an engine failure on an airplane, the procedure for a safe landing
                will involve the following steps:</p>
            <ol id="ol_n5t_d1t_lwb">
                <li>Maintaining control: The pilot will adjust the aircraft's speed, altitude, and
                    attitude to counteract any yaw or roll that may result from the engine
                    failure.</li>
                <li>Glide path: The pilot will try to establish a glide path that allows the
                    aircraft to maintain altitude as much as possible and reach the nearest suitable
                    landing site. The pilot will adjust the aircraft's speed, angle, and
                    configuration to optimize the glide distance and reach a safe landing spot.</li>
                <li>Engine failure checklist: The pilot will follow the engine failure checklist,
                    which includes items such as reducing the thrust on the operating engine,
                    extending the landing gear, and configuring the flaps for landing.</li>
                <li>Landing gear: The pilot will lower the landing gear to provide a stable platform
                    for landing.</li>
                <li>Flaps: The pilot will extend the flaps to provide additional lift and to slow
                    the aircraft down for landing.</li>
                <li>Final approach: The pilot will maneuver the aircraft into a stable approach for
                    landing, aiming for the centerline of the runway.</li>
                <li>Touchdown: The pilot will aim for a smooth touchdown on the runway, using the
                    nosewheel first to absorb the initial impact.</li>
                <li>Evacuation: If necessary, the pilot will initiate an emergency evacuation of the
                    aircraft following a safe landing.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section id="section_lxn_1bt_lwb">
            <title>Landing on Water</title>
            <p>Landing on water refers to the process of bringing an aircraft down to the surface of
                a body of water, either intentionally in the case of a water landing or ditching, or
                unintentionally in the case of a crash.</p>
            <p>A water landing or ditching is a controlled descent onto the surface of water,
                usually carried out in emergency situations when the pilot is unable to reach a
                suitable landing runway. In these cases, the pilot will aim to land the aircraft as
                smoothly as possible to minimize the risk of damage or injury to the aircraft and
                its occupants.</p>
            <p>On the other hand, a crash into water is an uncontrolled descent into the water and
                usually results in significant damage to the aircraft and potentially serious injury
                or death to the occupants.</p>
            <p>Regardless of the reason, landing on water is considered to be a high-risk situation,
                and all aircraft are designed with specific safety features to help minimize the
                risk to the occupants in the event of a water landing or ditching. These may include
                flotation devices, life rafts, and emergency exits designed to allow occupants to
                quickly evacuate the aircraft after it comes to a stop on the water.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
